---
title: Saturday
---

### Fridge Adventure

Our fridge is malfunctioning.

The freezer compartment at the bottom is very cold. The fridge compartment at the top is very warm. 

Once or twice a day, the fridge starts beeping loudly - a temperature warning. When this happens at night, when we're trying to sleep, the alarm is more of a problem than the problem it's warning us about.

I've seen all of these symptoms before, so I thought I knew what the problem was. Last time, after a lot of false starts and investigation, we worked out that there was a fan in the fridge which blew cold air up from the freezer into the fridge. One of the wires connected to this fan had broken.

We (a few adventurous flatmates) soldered the wire back together, put the fan back inside the fridge and congratulated ourselves.

It broke again two days later.

The inside of a fridge is a harsh environment, and our soldering job wasn't good enough. The cold temperatures and vibrating fan quickly broke the wire again. We made several more attempts over the next few weeks, but eventually the wire broke in a spot just inside the fan where we couldn't easily reach it with the soldering iron.

I took the fan to <a href="http://www.surplustronics.co.nz/shop/">Surplustronics</a> and a man there soldered it up for us, one last time. Compared to our own attempts, his soldering looked beautiful - a single drop of solder, with no exposed wire visible anywhere. (Our attempts had always left half a centimetre of stripped wire on either side of the job.)

We had no problems with the fridge for a long time after that. In fact, I seem to be the only remaining flatmate who still remembers the problems that we had before.

I removed the fan from the fridge (an operation which requires removing all the food and shelves from the fridge first) and took the fan back to Surplustronics. I couldn't see an obvious break in the wire, but that it might be broken somewhere inside that I couldn't spot.

The man I talked to at Surplustronics this time was significantly younger, but seemed just as capable. He tested the fan for me. It worked fine. OK. Oops.

(Back home, I realised that I could have easily tested the fan myself instead of taking it in. Once I'd taken out all the plastic and polystyrene that hid it from view, it was easy to coax the fridge into running the fan where I could see it. I was so confident that the problem would be related to the fan that I didn't make even a simple attempt to validate my conclusion.)

But if it wasn't the fan, what was it?

I knew that something was stopping cold air from moving from the freezer up to the fridge. Maybe the air ducts were blocked with ice? 

Looking more carefully, I could see some ice visible in the air ducts.

I turned off the fridge and left it to defrost. We'll find out tomorrow if I got it right this time.

### Blog Adventure

I coded up a new blog today.

The plan was simple: copy the stark minimalism from <a href="http://tomayko.com">Ryan Tomayko's website</a>, the cool 'link blocks' from <a href="http://www.daveperrett.com/">Dave Perrett's website</a> and make something beautiful.

After a few hours I had a nice looking Jekyll template. Unfortunately, it looked _quite a lot_ like Mr. Tomayko's blog. Despite having many subtle differences, my homepage felt like a blatant copy of his.

After some thought, I decided that my key problem was that I'd stolen his fonts. Ryan's homepage and mine both feature the author's name in huge type, centred at the top of the page. Using the same font really accentuated the plagiarism.

So I went off to <a href="http://cssfontstack.com/">cssfontstack</a> to find some fonts of my own. I'm not 100% confident that my choices were good, but I do feel like my web page is legitimately mine now. It looks "inspired by", not "copied from".

Fonts I like, but didn't use:
* font-family: Optima, Segoe, "Segoe UI", Calibri, Arial, sans-serif;
* font-family: 'Courier New', Courier, monospace; 
* font-family: Calibri, Candara, Segoe, "Segoe UI", Optima, Arial, sans-serif;
** calibri is quite fun for huge text.

### Little things

I'm using Sublime to edit this post. Today I learned that Sublime has support for 'projects', with a little file browser, and that it has a spell checker. Wonderful.

I spent a lot on food today: $16.50 late breakfast plus a $6 smoothie, $4.50 for an iced coffee drink, $16 dinner, $4.50 for milk and chocolate from a diary. That's $47.50 in total.

As my last day of work rapidly approaches, do I need to start conserving money? It wouldn't be hard to cook my own breakfast and save $10 a day ($3,650 a year).

On the other hand, cooking's not my core business. Maybe it's rational to pay for breakfast, if it means I can devote more attention to my projects.