---
title: Old Games
layout: normal
---

I bought a new gaming computer so I could play some modern games.

### Deus Ex: Human Revolution (2011)

I tried to play without killing anyone. This was immediately not practical, and I soon found myself shooting dozens of enemies. Still, I always used a non-lethal takedown if I could. It felt important to me, and I felt like the game respected it too.

Human Revolution is a really good Deus Ex game. It's almost like Deus Ex had a funeral, and all its friends went along and told stories, and those stories turned into a new game. It's your best memories of Deus Ex.

Gone is the bad AI, the wooden acting, the depressing first level that caused so many people to quit and never come back. 

Instead, we have a polished, modern game. Combat works, hacking is fun, the conversation minigame is genuinely good (maybe a first in videogame history). The modern touches, like the cover system, regenerating health and switching to 3rd person for special moves, all feel good and not "consolified" or tacked on. It really is just a more accessible, less buggy Deus Ex.

The world is full of stories and little details. I often risked my life to read notes or emails, not for codes or experience points but because I wanted to hear about the people in this world. 

The game's not perfect. Like Deus Ex 1 or Vampire: Bloodlines, the world feels lonely. You may discover stories and mysteries hidden in notes, but your character won't mention them to anyone -- there's no closure and no answers.

Some of the cut scenes don't properly match what happens in the game. Some of the characters feel just slightly racist or sexist -- I would feel uncomfortable playing in front of an audience. 

Still, it's an amazing game, and an amazing Deus Ex game. 

### Grand Theft Auto IV (2008)

I grew up with GTA and this game left me wondering: _was it always this bad? How did I not notice?_

GTA IV is completely lifeless. You play an Eastern European arriving in an ugly city to meet your ugly brother and do ugly jobs for other ugly people.

Every cutscene has some gross character telling you what to do. You're supposed to hate them, so you can feel happy when you eventually get to kill them - I remember GTA: San Andreas was the same. But I've been playing for 7 hours and I'm still doing missions for characters I hate. I don't have the patience to wait for everything to turn around.

The content of the missions is just as bad. They feel like a list of the game's features. Buy some clothes. Shimmy across a ledge. Go on a date. Maybe it gets better, but like I said before: I'm 7 hours in and it still feels like a tutorial.

Speaking of dates, this are the worst part of the game so far. Your friends and girlfriends call you and ask you to go play awful minigames with them (pool, bowling, darts). You can refuse but you lose some kind of points.

A pool minigame would be OK if I wasn't forced to play it. It could be a funny thing to find and put on youtube. But it's not very good, and forcing me to play it makes the games worse.

The world is super ugly. The billboards are meant to be satirical, but the joke is usually "Haha, that billboard looks like porn."